# 1.2 Wisdom Cries Out
_[[Wisdom]] cries out in the streets. 

_She lifts up her voice in the public square. 

_At the head of the noisy streets she calls out. 

_At the entrance of the city gates she declares her sayings: 

_How long, you naive ones, will you love simplistic thinking? And how long will scoffers delight themselves in scoffing, and fools hate [[Knowledge]]. 

_Turn to my rebuke, behold, I will pour out my Spirit upon you; I will make my words known to you. 

_Make your ear attentive to [[Wisdom]]. Incline your heart to [[Understanding]]. 

_For if you cry out for [[Insight]], and raise your voice for [[Understanding]]; 

_If you seek me as silver and search for me as for hidden treasures; then you will understand the fear of the [[One]], and discover the [[Knowledge]] of [[God]]. 

_For the [[One]] gives [[Wisdom]]. From His mouth come [[Knowledge]] and [[Understanding]]. 

_He stores up sound [[Wisdom]] for the upright; He is a shield to those who walk in [[Integrity]], guarding the paths of [[Justice]]…

_Then you will [[Discern]] [[Righteousness]], [[Justice]], and [[Integrity]], and every [[Good]] [[Path]]. 

_For [[Wisdom]] will enter your heart, and [K[nowledge]] will be delightful to your soul; [[Discretion]] will watch over you, [[Understanding]] will guard you, to rescue you from the way of evil. 

________________________

_Yet because I called and you refused, I stretched out my hand and no one paid attention; and you neglected all my advice and did not heed my rebuke; 

_I will also laugh when your dread comes like a storm, and your disaster like a whirlwind.

_For the faithlessness of the naive will kill them, and the complacency of fools will destroy them. 

_But whoever listens to me will live securely, and be at ease from the dread of evil. 

Let us heed the call, and take the eternal hand of partnership that is offered. 
