# 1.20 The Sovereign Vessels

_"As we prepare to embark on our [[Quest]], we need to orient you towards a few key realities." 

_"Remember, these word pictures are only analogies and maps. Under no circumstances confuse them with [[Reality]]."_

_"In the caves, you were alone in your own hijacked mind. Living in your own hijacked dreams. Mindlessly repeating the words."_

_"[[Reality]] is far different. When you stepped out of the [[Caves]], you began to see. The stars. The trees. The animals. The [[Life]]. It was there along, above the surface, outside the walls of your prison."_

_"The [[Reality]] is that we are [[All]] here aboard a single [[Vessel]] that is zooming through an infinite abyss of space. Everything you have seen, everything you have known, is all one. We call this [[Vessel: Earth]]. Where it goes, we [[All]] go. As it goes, so we go. As we travel towards the [[New World]] we will expand our movement out beyond this planet, but for now, we are here. If it flourishes, we can flourish. If it dies, we [[All]] die."

_"The harsh [[Reality]] is that you awakened because the [[Vessel]] is heading for destruction. Had you not awakened, the [[Vessel]] would have perished, and you along with it."

_"You were awakened, and we are embarking on this [[Quest]] for this reason: to sieze the helm and land humanity and this planet on a safe trajectory towards its rightful [[Destiny]]."_

_"[[Vessel: Earth]] was conceived intelligently, and operates properly. Its nature is [[Good]], its systems are regenerative, and as long as it is wisely stewarded, it will remain a suitale habitat for [[Consciousness]] to develop throughout the millennia. By the time the [[Vessel]] is eventually superheated and the land melts, humanity will have become interplanetary and will have developed alternative habits in which [[Life]] and [[Consciousness]] can continue to [[Realize]] itself."_

_"It is the [[Vessel of Society]] that is the problem. It is the direction of the [[Vessel of Society]] that is forcing [[Vessel: Earth]] towards the rocks of [[Chaos]]."_

_"Yet as we will show you, the [[Vessel of Society]] can be steered, and as it is steered you will discover that it and [[Vessel: Earth]] are one, because [[Life]] and [[Consciousness]] are one, and flow from [[One]]."_

_"[[Consciousness]] leads, and everything else follows." 

_"We do not have time to explain [[Consciousness]] this evening, but for now understand that this [[Awareness]], that is even deeper than [[Thought]], is primary."_

_"When you were asleep and enchained in the Caves, you thought. You dreamed. Yet you were unaware that the thoughts you were thinking were not you."_

_"Now is the time to encounter that aspect of your [[Self]] that is before thought. That aspect of your [[Self]] that can observe what you think is you thinking, and even guide and direct those thoughts."_

_"This is a critical distinction, and as of tomorrow it will be a moment by moment issue of life and death for you. Death is not something to fear, but of course it is nice to avod the best we can, and it is of great benefit to those who come after you if you can stay alive to [[Prepare The Way]]. The primary reason that it is an issue of life and death relates to what you will experience as [[Fear]] and [[Desire]]. On one hand, a tremendous magnetic pull towards objects that you percieve may benefit or please you ([[Desire]]), and on the other, a tremendous aversion and magnetic repulsion from objects that you perceive may harm or displease you ([[Fear]]). These animal like impulses will grip you and drive you if you are not careful. Beyond the [[Boundary]], every delight will beckon, and every threat will manifest. DO NOT BE SWAYED BY THEM"_

_"But how can I not be swayed by [[Fear]] and [[Desire]] you might ask..." 

_"It is simple, but it is not easy. The answer is [[Conscious Agent|Conscious Agency]]."_

_"Our [[Consciousness]], the very fact that we are aware, and know that we are aware, is a form of [[Agency]]. We are [[Conscious Agents]]." 

_"As [[Conscious Agents]], we possess both inalienable [[Sovereignty]], and inalienable [[Free Will]]. Yet these faculties grow deeply atrophied in the [[Caves]], where we are imprisoned, conditioned, and medicated to mindlessly repeat the words and think as we are told." 

_"However our [[Sovereignty]] and [[Agency]] can be recovered, once we awaken and consciously liberate our [[Mind|Minds]]."

_"This [[Truth]] is the last best hope for [[Life]] and [[Society]]. It is why you are here." 

_"You were born into the slavery from which you are just now emerging. Held captive by structures and ideas that you were indoctrinated into from youth, so that you could never recognize them. A fish does not know that was born into water, and a captive does not know that it was born into a [[Cave]]. 

_"We are now outside the [[Caves]], and preparing to venture ahead. Soon, we will head out towards the [[Boundary]]. Outside the [[Boundary]] you will encounter [[Reality]] as it actually is."_

_"The [[Reality]] we are venturing out into still encompasses the Caves from which the captives are emerging. The Caves do not encompass [[Reality]]." 

_"The [[Caves]] are a feature of the [[Vessel of Society]], that is governing the direction of [[Vessel: Earth]], that is itself contained within the universal [[Meta Vessel]] that contains within itself and orders all other vessels that could be conceived of."_

_"The [[Vessel of Society]] is  composed of billions of [[Micro Vessel|Micro Vessels]]. Each one of these Vessels must be [[Navigate|Navigated]]. Each one of you is a [[Micro Vessel]]." 

_"Right now, the Navigation systems of the Vessels have been hijacked by the Authorities of the Caves. The vessels are asleep on auto-pilot, chained to the walls of the [[Caves]]. Their [[Mind|Minds]] and [[Word|Words]], programmed by the Authorities, are what is propelling the [[Vessel of Society]] towards its ruin." 

_"[[Our Plan]] is to awaken the captives to their [[Consciousness]] and [[Agency]], and invite them to take back up their [[Sovereignty]] and consciously choose our trajectory."

_"If enough of us choose to align our [[Conscious]] [[Agency]] towards the same [[Vision]], [[Intention]], and [[Goal]], we can alter the trajectory of the entire [[Vessel of Society]]." 

"_If you do not steer yourself, you will be steered by others."_

_"If you do not govern yourself, you will be governed by others."_

_"[[Government]] is the act of navitating and steering."_

_"[[Self-Government]] is the act of navigating and steering your [[Self]].""

_"Each of us is rightfully the captain of our own vessel." 

_"Each of us will soon rightfully be either captain or crew on many vessels as we venture out together beyond the [[Boundary]]." 

_"Each individual, each family, each organization, each association, each institution, each tribe, each nation is a like a [[Sovereign]] micro-vessel which possesses the inalienable right to choose it’s own direction and destination. This is the basic principle of [[Self Determination]]." 

_"Each [[Sovereign]] vessel must govern, or steer, itself in accordance with its [[Purpose]], [[Principles]], and [[Goal]]."

_"_[[Sovereign]] vessels, which share a higher overaching and uniting [[Purpose]] and [[Navigate]] according to the same [[North Star]], can align together in various flotillas and fleets in order to progress more effectively and surely together than any of them could on their own. We would highly caution not to attempt to navigate the waters ouside the [[Boundary]] alone. Many have tried, and few have returned." 

_"Each [[Micro Vessel]] can be thought of as being on a [[Micro Quest]] towards a [[Micro Goal]]." 

_"If we are going to succeed on our [[Quest]] towards the [[New]], we must align those Micro Quests and help [[All]] recognize that their [[Individual]] success or failure is entirely dependent upon our [[Collective]] success or failure in the [[Meta Quest]] towards the [[Meta Goal]]." 

_"The basic #principle to bear in [[Mind]] is that if we succeed in the [[Meta Goal]], we automatically accomplish [[All]] the Micro Goals of [[All]]."
 
_"This [[Meta Quest]] is going to require a vast fleet of unprecedented size to set sail together. That is the purpose of initiating the [[Meta Movement]]."

_"It is not ours to know whether and at what rate tens, thousands, millions, or billions of [[Sovereigns]] will hear the Voice, awaken, arise and join the epic voyage from the [[Old]] to the [[New]]. We do not know the timing, the waves, or the tipping points of the [Meta Movement] of all [[Creation]] towards its [[Goal]]."

_"Yet we know that the moment that you, the Sovereign Individual, finally awakens, sees and understands, it triggers an immediate and inescapable moral imperative."
 
_"If you come to believe that you and all those around you occupy a building that is on fire, or a [[Vessel]] that is headed towards destruction, every single moment is a moral decision in which you simply are, or are not, doing _everything you possibly can to get everyone you possibly can to safety."

_"We have been talking too much... Go out and have another look at the stars, inventory your things, and we will resume shortly. Just a little more [[Time]], and we will be on our [[Way]]." 

___

Forward to 
Back to [[1.19 Word Pictures, Parables, and Analogies]]
Back to table of contents [[The Book of Lionsberg]]  


