# 1.4 Unmoored in the Seas of Chaos
You are asleep inside of a [[Vessel]] that has come unmoored in the midst of the storms, and is being violently driven and tossed by the waves in the roiling seas of [[Chaos]]. 
 
The Spirit that confronts and overcomes the darkest terrors and forges [[New Order]] out of their ashes is on the move. 
 
It is calling you. It is whispering to you. It is breathing into your lungs. It is inviting you. 

_Deep is crying out to Deep. 

_"Wake up!"_
 
_"Awaken! Arise! remember who are you are!"_

You begin to stir, vaguely becoming aware of the vice-like grip of the induced coma on your [[Consciousness]].

_"Wake up! It is not real. You have been dreaming. You have been asleep for a very long time..."_

The whisper is shattering. It roars like thunder. It hurts. 

_"You are in great danger. We must go! Quickly now!"_

One eye half opens, then closes. There is little difference. It is dark. It is wet. It is cold. 

_"It is time. Up now! Here we go!"_

The whispering voice feels like it is shattering your ear drums. As you try to move your arm, it is heavy, and doesn't move. 

The voice grows firm. 

_"Now."_

The word sounds like _roar of many waters_, echoing through the depths of the earth. 

It finally startles you awake into a nightmare. 

_"I have been trying to awaken you for a very long time. Your life is in danger. You are going to have to trust Me. We must move quickly, and I will explain things along the [[Way]]._

_"Who are you?"_, you ask? 

_"I Am," the voice thunders in reply."

As your eyes strain to adjust to the darkness and you try to roll over, you hear the sound of chains. Your body feels sore and weak, and you soon realize you are helpless. 








Woe to the cowardly and blind leaders who drunkenly brawl on the bridge of [[Vessel]], while she lists and careens towards the rocks. 


This time both eyes slowly 

_"Courageously face down that which you least want to look at. Brave the storms you are most terrified to venture out into."_

_"Grab the helm and transform the [[Vessel of Society]] into an [[Ark]] that can carry all generations of life eternally onward towards thier [[Destiny]]."_

Startled from your sleep, you wake up into a nightmare. It is dark. As you try to roll over, your body feels heavy, and you hear the sound of chains. 




The [[Vessel of Society]] must be consciously guided and steered. 
 
Towards what [[Destiny]] shall we [[Navigate]] the [[Vessel]]? 

Towards what [[End]] shall we [[Govern]] ourselves? 
 
[[Where We Are Going]]? [[Where Are We]]? [[Why Are We Here]]? 
 

 
Awaken and grab the helm! 

Arise, and remember who you are!
  
Take up your [[Authority]], and [[Navigate]] towards [[Life]]! 

