# 1.5 The Caves
Covered in the cloak of the Spirit, you are swept along through the cool damp air. 

An occasional fire casts flickers of light onto the walls, and you begin to make out figures. 

Millions of them. 

Chained to the walls. Asleep. 

_"Where are you taking me?"_

_"Beyond."_

_"Beyond what?"_

_"Beyond the [[Boundary]]."_

_"What [[Boundary]]?"_

_"My voice will wake the others if I speak, and what I am about to show you is beyond your ability to conceive of it. Be quiet and try to [[Perceive]], and we will discuss it when we are out safely beyond."_

The nightmare you witness as your soar through the cavernous darkness stands in stark contrast to the grey dreams that are your only recent memories. 

Pale bodies, billions of them chained in the darkness. 

As your eyes adjust to seeing for the first time, you begin to [[Perceive]] the terrain. 

It becomes appartent that what you are making your way through is some kind of vast network of caves. Some are so enormous that the


Through a seemingly endless maze you continue on through the air. 


Woe to the cowardly and blind leaders who drunkenly brawl on the bridge of [[Vessel]], while she lists and careens towards the rocks. 




The [[Vessel of Society]] must be consciously guided and steered. 
 
Towards what [[Destiny]] shall we [[Navigate]] the [[Vessel]]? 

Towards what [[End]] shall we [[Govern]] ourselves? 
 
[[Where We Are Going]]? [[Where Are We]]? [[Why Are We Here]]? 
 

 





_"What are you talking about?"_

_"Turn off that [[Light]]!"_

_"You're hurting our eyes!"_

_"Somebody stop him!"_

