# 1.7 Piercing Eternal Truth In The Midst Of Lies
Entering back into the [[Cave]], we must recognize that the environment is inherently a viscous sea of lies, deception and propaganda, mindlessly spewing forth from the decaying Authorities and their captives. 

Against this backdrop, it is no small task to [[Truth]] to inbreak, illuminate and recontextualize the whole of the past, present, and future of the universe and our existence.

Inside the Caves, the available words to speak of the [[Most Important Things]] that are critical to our survival and flourishing have been co-opted and weaponized to keep the captives triggered, fearful, asleep, and divided. 

Yet somewhere within, deep within, no matter how buried they might be, the [[True]] concepts and ideas are universally known. Even by those who are asleep. 



We can easily rediscover them.
 
The real challenge, and what has been lacking, is a shared [Vision], [Intention] and a [Way] to operationalize them, at global scale, rapidly enough to avert the impending failure and land humanity and our planet on a safe trajectory towards the [New World].
 
What makes this [Meta Challenge] even more difficult is that humanity has pushed its socioeconomic systems, and the entire [Living System], to the brink of failure. Every day we do not change our trajectory, our mission becomes far more difficult and dangerous. 

We have not left ourselves much [Time].
 
It has become apparent that the institutions of government, religion, and society we have looked to for leadership in the past have become old, blind, corrupt, and incapable of arising to meet this moment in history. They cannot, and will not, save us.

In far too many cases, their power depends on the ongoing poverty, suffering, and ignorance of the individuals and systems they are exploiting for their own narrow benefit at the expense of [All]. 
 
This means simply that we, [Sovereign] individuals around the world, must arise and unite to confront and overcome the total set of all existential threats, injustices, and corruption within a single generation, so that all future generations of life can flourish throughout the millennia to come. 
 
It is possible. There is a [Way]. But we must move quickly. Follow me. 