# The Sovereign Vessels

_Say to the first few who awaken: 

We are [[All]] here aboard one [[Vessel: Earth]]. Where it goes, we [[All]] go. As it goes, so we go. 

We are [[All]] aboard a [[Vessel]] that is heading for destruction. 

Yet the [[Vessel of Society]] can be steered, and as it is steered you will discover that it and [[Vessel: Earth]] are one. 

[[Consciousness]] leads, and everything else follows. 

Our [[Consciousness]] is a form of [[Agency]]. We are [[Conscious Agents]]. 

As [[Conscious Agents]], we possess both inalienable [[Sovereignty]], and inalienable [[Free Will]]. 

It is these Truths that are the last best hope for [[Life]] and [[Society]].

Yet you have been asleep and enslaved. Held captive by structures and ideas that you were born and indoctrinated into, so that you could never recognize them. A fish does not know that was born into water, and a captive does not know that it was born into a [[Cave]]. 

Outside the Caves there is a [[Boundary]]. Outside the [[Boundary]] is [[Reality]]. 

[[Reality]] encompasses the Caves. The Caves do not encompass [[Reality]]. 

The [[Meta Vessel]] contains within itself a [[Vessel of Society]]. The [[Vessel of Society]] is  composed of billions of micro-vessels. 

Each one of these Vessels must be [[Navigate|Navigated]]. 

Right now, the Navigation systems of the Vessels have been hijacked by the Authorities of the Caves. The vessels are asleep on auto-pilot, chained to the walls of the Caves. Their collective [[Consciousness]] and [[Word|Words]], programmed by the Authorities, is what is propelling the [[Vessel of Society]] towards its ruin. 

[[Our Plan]] is to awaken the captives to their [[Consciousness]] and [[Agency]], and ask them to take back up their [[Sovereignty]] and consciously choose our trajectory. 

If enough of us choose to align our [[Conscious]] [[Agency]] towards the same [[Vision]], [[Intention]], and [[Goal]], we can alter the trajectory of the entire [[Vessel of Society]]. 

Each [Sovereign] [Conscious Agent], who possesses the ability to choose, is like a micro-vessel which must be steered. 

_If you do not steer yourself, you will be steered by others._

_If you do not govern yourself, you will be governed by others._

_Government is the act of navitating and steering._

_Self-government is the act of navigating and steering your [[Self]] _

Each of us is the captain of our own vessel. We are captain or crew on many vessels. Each individual, each family, each organization, each association, each institution, each tribe, each nation is a like a [Sovereign] micro-vessel which possesses the inalienable right to choose it’s direction. Each [Sovereign] vessel must govern, or steer, itself in accordance with its [Purpose], [Mission], and [Goal].

[Sovereign] vessels, which share a [Purpose] and [Navigate] according to the same North Star, can align together in various flotillas and fleets in order to progress more effectively and surely together than any of them could on their own. 
 
This [Meta Quest] is going to require a vast fleet of unprecedented size to set sail together. It is not ours to know whether and at what rate tens, thousands, millions, or billions of [Sovereigns] will awaken, arise and join the epic voyage from the [Old World] to the [New World]. We do not know the timing, the waves, or the tipping points of the [Meta Movement] of all [Creation] towards the [Goal]. Yet we know that the moment that you, the sovereign individual, finally sees and understands, it triggers an immediate and inescapable moral choice. 
 
If you come to believe that you and all those around you occupy a building that is on fire, every single moment is a moral decision in which you simply are, or are not, doing everything you possibly can to get everyone you possibly can to safety. 
 
Only the spiritually and intellectually blind and deaf will be able to succeed in absorbing these words without realizing that in light of our present [Reality], every moment of every individual’s life is just such a moral decision. 

It is our inescapable [Reality]. 
 
Once we have seen, once we understand, we have no choice but to embark immediately, to advance away from suffering and towards the [Goal], and to help [All] [Creation] advance with us.
 
Many people will be far too complacent, comfortable, and attached to their [Old World] lives and positions to take the risk of untying themselves from the dock of the [Old] to brave the great seas of adventure and uncertainty. They will remain asleep and unconscious in a failing system of scarcity, slavery and exploitation that is consuming itself and growing sicker with each passing day, vaguely prodded on by fear, aversion, craving, and the whips of those they have subordinated and enslaved themselves to. 
 
They will not risk embarking on a journey of transformation until the pain they are experiencing is greater than the perceived pain of change. 
 
However if we all wait until the pain is so acute we are forced to transform, we are sentencing ourselves and generations of life to come to unimaginable suffering in the dystopia that would be left behind by our [Failure] and lack of [Courage].
 
The quantum adjustment or [Phase Change] in our complex adaptive system that has been pushed to the brink of [Chaos] is coming. Humanity will eventually get the message and understand that [Mother Earth] and [Source] will not allow their children to be raped, corrupted, and exploited forever. It is up to us whether we voluntarily [Turn Around], seek [Forgiveness], and put ourselves back in service of [Life] and its [Source], or whether we insist upon hardening our hearts against [Being], and thereby bring upon ourselves the suffering and death that accompanies the proverbial flood. 
 
The moment we awaken and see that we are in a building that is on fire, we must move with the full force of our beings to transform the situation. 
 
Calling all sovereigns. It is time to arise, unite, and embark on an epic [Quest] towards the [Goal]. 