# 4.3 Your New Daily Practice 
If You have not already mastered or transcended a [[Daily Practice]] that _causes_ every day to be great, and to produce [[Throughput]] of what You [[Value]] the most, here is a starting point, purpose-built to work with the rest of the [[Lionsberg System]]. 

It is a Integrated System designed to elevate and transform Your entire Being, Spiritually, Intellectually, and Physically. 

Because the System is rooted in the [[One]] Highest and Deepest thing, it includes references to the English words commonly used to point at such things, including [[God]] and [[Prayer]]. 

We recognize how problematic and misused the word [[God]] has become, so please look beyond the [[Word Tool]] to the Ultimate Reality it is pointing at, and feel free to modify the words to reflect [[One]] highest Overarching and Uniting thing You can relate to. 

___
## Part 1: Morning Practice

**Step 1: Wake Up Prayerfully and Intentionally** - Wake Up with gratitude that You woke up. Before You get out of bed, and at the earliest moment You can remember, say a quick [[Prayer of Gratitude]], and commit Your day to God - to the [[One]] and the [[All]]. 

_For example: Father in Heaven, Source and Sustainer of Life and Breathe, good morning. I Love You. Thank You for Your Love. Thank you for sustaining Me through the night. Thank you for the gift of another day of Life. I freely give back to You what You have freely given to Me, and I consecrate this day and all that I am to You. Please lead Me, guide Me, and go before Me Today. Where You lead, I will follow._

**Step 2: Journaling, Part I** - Before doing anything else, write down or record a quick voice note with any reflections, inspirations, questions, or answers that emerged during the night. Write down any dreams that felt significant. These observations are often fleeting, and can be quickly lost if not immediately captured. 

**Step 3: Preserve Your Clarity** - As you get out of bed, use the restroom, and wake up, DO NOT pollute the purity of Consciousness that You gained during sleep by going on your phone, computer, tablet, or other device. Allow Your Mind the space and freedom to be bored and to continue to clarify what it was working on during the night. 

**Step 4: Hygeine** - Brush and floss your teeth, cleanse your body and face, and make Your Self externally reflect the clarity and purity within. 

**Step 5: Prepare Your [[Morning Drink]], and prepare Your [[Place of Practice]]**. Make sure that Your space is ordered and beautiful so that your Spirit, Mind, and Body can be free and relaxed. 

**Step 6: Get Settled In Your [[Place of Practice]]** 

**Step 7: Journaling, Part II**

1. **Reflections, Inspirations, Questions, and Answers** - Further write down and clarify any reflections, inspirations, clarity, questions, or answers that emerged during the night.  
2. **Clear the Fog** - Articulate and drive out any fears, anxieties, etc. Write down the things that are bothering You so that You can clear Your Mind for Prayer and Meditation. 

**Step 5: Physical Activity** - Do a few minutes of light physical activity to wake up your system. A few pushups, a few squats, a few jumping jacks, etc. until you are awake and alert and your heart rate is up a bit. This helps wake up your mind, clear away anxiety, and prepare You for the rest of Your Morning Practice. 

**Step 6: Centering And Aligning Prayer** - Before meditation, offer a [[Centering and Aligning Prayer]], to draw Your Self as close to Unity, Harmony, and Alignment with God as You can. 

**Step 7: [[Meditation]]** - Clear Your Mind, and spend time meditating in [[Silence]]. Calm Your Mind, focus on Your breath, and progressively extend the amount of [[Time]] that You can maintain a calm and silent [[Mind]]. 

**Step 8: Journaling, Part III** - From this renewed Place of clarity and alignment, write. 
1. What is God, Your Conscience, or Your Highest Self speaking to You? 
2. What is on Your Mind? What is Your Attention being drawn to? What is Inspiring You? 
3. What are You feeling particularly grateful for? 
4. Regenerate Your Story: 
	1. Who Are You? 
	2. Who Are You Becoming? 
	3. Where Are You? 
	4. How Did You Get There? 
	5. Where Are You Going? 
	6. Why?
	7. How was Your day yesterday, and what Stories are You telling Your Self about what happened? 
	8. What victories or accomplishments were attained yesterday that advanced You towards the Goal of [[Your Quest]]?  
	9. What [[Value]] did Your efforts over the last 24 hours help produce? 
5. Review Your [[Navigation Dashboard]]: 
	1. Based on Your [[Current Best Understanding]], what is the next significant [[Milestones|Milestone]] that marks the [[Critical Path]] towards the [[Goal]]? 
	2. What do You [[Perceive]] as Your most important next steps? 
	3. What do You [[Perceive]] as Your most significant obstacles? 
	4. What Would Make Today Great? 
	5. If This Was Your Last Week On Earth, What Would You Do Today? 
	6. What Are Your [[Big Three]] for Today? 
	7. What is Your [[Big One]] for Today? 
	8. What is Your Plan for Today to ensure that You accomplish Your [[Big One]], and advance to Your [[Big Three]] if possible? 
	9. How will You 

**Step 9: Affirmation** - If You have developed a [[Statement of Affirmation]], read it or recite it Your Self. 

**Step 10: Random Reading** - Open a sacred book randomly, and read whatever is present wherever You land. Allow the universal and eternal Spirit to speak to You and Your Time, Place, and Situation through the words. If You do not have a starting point, the oldest, most widely translated, and widely used book in this regard is the Bible. Whatever You read, read it not in the context of Religion, but as if the Spirit alive in You was in active dialogue with the Spirit behind the words. Find the sacred and eternal that is beyond the words. What does it speak into Your Life? How does it alter Your [[Current Best Understanding]]? 

**Step 11: Closing** - In closing, write down any thoughts inspired by Your reading, and make any updates to Your 

___
Reading

Random Reading