# 0.2 Minimum Viable Version
## 0.2.1 Context

In order for the Federation to accomplish the [[Meta Goal]], it will need a sophisticated Integrated Delivery System to bring it into reality. 

The [[Lionsberg Integrated Delivery System]] was purpose-built for this reason as part of the overaching [[Lionsberg System]], which is part of the total conceptual whole of [[Lionsberg]].  

Both due to the temporary lack of resources during the bootstrapping cycles, and due to the wide range of experience and skill in [[Program and Process Management]], it is not realistic to start with a fully developed implementation. 

Like all other elements of the [[Lionsberg System]], the Integrated Delivery System will need to be brought into Reality in [[Minimum Viable]] form, and then progressively grown, complexified, and improved over time. 

## 0.2.2 Introduction to Integrated Delivery
For an introduction to Integrated Delivery, see [[1.0 Introduction]]. 

## 0.2.3 Essential Elements of Integrated Delivery
At its most simple core, Lean Integrated Delivery systems can be reduced to a few very core ideas. Each idea over time can be further developed, along with complimentary practices, tools and infrastructure. 

### 0.2.3.1 The Goal
The biggest single idea to grasp in Integrated Delivery is there is only One overarching and uniting Goal of the System. 

This One Highest Goal contains within itself and orders the total nested hierarchy of all other goals and objectives implied by the Goal. 

In the [[Lionsberg System]], the highest overarching and uniting Goal is called the [[Meta Goal]]. 

The [[Meta Goal]] is the [[One Thing]] that unites [[All]]. 

### 0.2.3.2 Throughput of the Goal
The second big idea is that the entire System should be optimized to produce [[Throughput]] of the Goal. 

In the [[Lionsberg System]], this means that [[All]] things optimize their activities to produce Throughput of the Meta Goal. 

In other words, [[All]] optimize their activities to produce the greatest [[Value]] for [[All]]. 

### 0.2.3.3 The Network of Commitments 
[[Throughput]] of the [[Goal]] is made by progressing through a rational [[Network of Commitments]]. 

[[Actor|Actors]] use the [[Planning System]] to determine the [[Milestones]] that mark the [[Way]] towards the [[Goal]]. 

Actors then work together to discern the most [[Efficient Path]] to reach the milestones. This is called the [[Critical Path]] or [[Critical Chain]]. 

The [[Critical Path]] is composed of [[Activity|Activities]] that Actors undertake. 

Each [[Activity]] has some Activities that logically should happen before it, called [[Predecessors]], and some Activities that logically should happen after it, called [[Successors]]. 

The rational links and logic between Activities form the [[Network of Commitments]]. 

The reason it is called a [[Network of Commitments]] is that an Activity cannot be completed unless an Actor makes and keeps a Commitment to do it. 

### 0.2.3.4 Tracking Commitments
A critical element of the [[Planning System]] is a way to track Commitments. 

The [[Planning System]] should continuously monitor and improve [[Reliability]] by statistically tracking [[Percent Promises Kept]] or similar, as well as the [[Root Causes for Variance]]. 







As noted, initially, and perhaps perpetually, this system should be simplified by focusing on the [[Handoff Points]] and Commitments between teams. 









, which can later be expanded upon, added to, and 