# 1.0 Introduction
Hello. We are glad you are here. 

This guide is written to help guide humanity on how to solve our global challenges and design and build a new world. On time. On budget. On quality. For the multi-generational benefit of all life.  

This **Integrated Delivery Guide** outlines leading thinking from the architecture, engineering, and construction industry on how to merge thousands of years of industry experience with modern lean and agile methodologies into a new paradigm of Lean Integrated Project Delivery. 

It explains how this methodology can be used to unite a global community of sovereign individuals, organizations, institutions and communities into a functional and coherent whole working together to transparently and effectively solve the problems we are facing and forge a better world. 

It explains how this effort can leave in it’s a wake a “common inheritance” of infrastructure, systems, culture, and technology that can empower humanity and the entire living system towards a future that is better in every way than the past we are leaving behind. 

It is intended as an accompaniment to [[The Book of Lionsberg]], which lays out other critical elements of the [[Lionsberg System]], including structure, governance, culture, and values. 

In places, this document may feel a bit awkward, because it is written over a fairly technical base document that represents tens of millions of dollars of thought and effort. 

The underlying technical work was commissioned and paid for by the US Federal Government in partnership with the State of California in order to determine the leading edge thought and process for setting up **seven billion dollar programs of action** under a single **Lean Integrated Project Delivery umbrella**. It outlines the concept of a system so off track, that the court ordered a Receiver to take control of it, and create a coordinated program of action to get it back on track. Sounds a bit like our [[Old World]]. 

When the global economy collapsed in 2009, the project was shelved, and the document never reached the public domain. However, because it was paid for federal and state government through a court ordered process, it was not copyrighted and was free to be adapted, modified and used. 

Through extensive research, we had previously identified a hypothesis that an elevated and adapted version of Lean Integrated Program Delivery would be the most appropriate and proven methodology to:

1. Solve the total set of grand challenges
2. Accomplish the total set of global goals
3. Design and build the best possible future for All

As we began to articulate the [[Lionsberg Integrated Delivery System]], our friends alerted us that tens of millions of dollars and many years had been invested into this system, and that it was available for our use and adaptation. 

We therefore used it as a **starting point** for the Lionsberg | Meta Project delivery system. 

As we have worked to help the Meta Project recognize and organize itself, we have found that time and time again the resources and elements that we need have been provided to us, in far better ways than we could have imagined, from totally unexpected sources. We have discovered that people have spent lifetimes and tremendous resources creating pieces that are provided just-in-time when the we need them. This is a marker that we are on the right track.

What is presented in this Delivery Guide is not a “project” – it is an **Integrated Delivery System** designed to bring [[Intention Into Reality]] at scale in massively complex environments. 

Holding the keys to such a system, towards what [[Intention]] and [[Goal]] shall we direct it? 

It will bring whatever we point it at into [[Reality]]. It is that powerful. 

There can be only one answer,

The highest intention and greatest good we can possibly conceptualize for all life. 
How? 
By forging a higher order system that integrates the underlying resources, action, and energy into a functional unity purpose built to meet the needs and solve the problems inherent in all people, organizations, communities, and ecosystems. 
This integrated Program of action is capable of aligning a limitless number of sovereign individuals, organizations, and communities into a higher order functional unity that is capable of solving the greatest challenges facing life on earth, and forging a flourishing New World out of the threats and obstacles that stand in our way. 
We will continue to improve this document to remove some of the ‘clunkiness’ remaining from it originally being centered around the provincial interests of systems in a single state, and then subsequently abstracted out into a meta level system. 
My profound thanks to Dan Fauchier and Greg Howell for bringing your life’s work to the Program. Your lifetime of experience is helping save civilization. 
In Community, 
~ J
