# 1.2 Background and Context

## 1.2.1 Global Recognition of the Failure of Existing Institutions to Address the Grand Challenges and Global Goals
At the opening of the third millennium, humanity became conscious that the existing complex of institutions that we had previously looked to for leadership were showing significant signs of corruption and deterioration, and appeared incapable of delivering transparent and globally coordinated solutions to the interconnected existential threats and challenges facing life on earth.  

A variety of court cases, news stories and footage streamed from around the world revealed a woefully inadequate state of existence and suffering for many of earth’s inhabitants. In far too many instances, it appeared the the power structures depended on the impoverishment and oppression of local populations for their wealth, positions and power.  

The global complex of governments, corporations, and institutions responsible for coordinating systems of action to alleviate suffering, create value and elevate the quality and meaning of life was failing at the most crucial juncture in human history.  

By 2020, humanity was beginning to simultaneously awaken and understand that millions of people were suffering, dying, and enduring injustice unnecessarily every month due to the corruption and inaction of the global power structures that depended on their poverty and suffering.  

The global community therefore determined that the global system of systems needed to be fundamentally transformed.

See also [[0.3 The Meta Story]]. 

## 1.2.2 Heroes on the Front Lines
In midst of the institutional failure, around the world everyday heroes were working tirelessly on the front lines of every battle to make the world a better place. People of goodwill were arising and gathering whatever resources they could leverage to solve the crises that were all around them.

Yet despite their best efforts over the early decades of the new millennium, suffering and injustice continued to abound. In isolation, we all lacked the true transformational power required to transform the root causes of suffering and injustice.

We realized amount that no amount of trying to do what we had done in the past better could ever get us to where we needed to go. A more radical transformation was needed and at hand.

## 1.2.3 Worksite: Earth

Around the world, people began working to consolidate the discernment of the global community into a coordinated [[Program of Action]] for [[Worksite: Earth]] as a whole. This included an effort to conceptualize the entirety of human history to date (how we got here), the current forces and conditions bearing on Worksite: Earth (where we are), and the highest intention and greatest good humanity could conceptualize for the future of all life aboard Earth (where we are going), and the approximate milestone-based logical [[Network of Commitments]] that might be us from point A to point B.  

It rapidly became obvious that the total systems level transformation that was required for Worksite: Earth was larger than any organization, nation, or institution could accomplish in isolation. 

Accomplishing the transformation within the timeframe required would require total global coordination.

Given that the existing institutions were politically unable to accomplish this, this meant that very pragmatically, a new gathering space and a new global coalition would need to be forged in order to succeed. 

## 1.2.4 Sovereign, Autonomous, and Coordinated Individuals, Organizations, and Communities
Because such universal [[Program of Action]] could not and should not be controlled from the top down, it was recognized that the emergent system and structure that was required would have to be based on voluntary coordination among sovereign and autonomous individuals, organizations, and communities. 

It was further recognized that no existing organization or structure could host such a coalition, so a clean, [[New]] space would have to be created where we could work together on the [[One Thing]] that unites us [[All]]. 

## 1.2.4 Creation of the Lionsberg Meta Project Framework and Structure
The interesting dichotomy was that while the sovereignty and autonomy of each [[Actor]] would have to be rigorously promoted and protected, the total set of [[All]] Actors would have to forge themselves into some kind of higher order functional unity in order to have a chance of succeeding. 

Solving the grand challenges, and accomplishing the global goals, in the time frame required, simply could not logically be accomplished by an array of competing organizations acting primarily in their own self interest. 

It was determined that in order to effectively unite the forces of goodwill above the lines that usually divided them, this single organism / functional unity inherently had to be super-ordinate to, and not sub-ordinate to, any existing nation, institution, or ideology. If the new Program and Community was subordinate to any religion or ideology, it would be rejected immediately at face value by billions of the people that urgently needed to unite to confront and overcome the existential threats. If it was subordinate to any existing nation or institution, it would exist at the will of a corrupt power structure that could compromise its integrity.

Based on this understanding, a key structural design criteria was established: the sovereignty and inherent worth of each form of life flows directly from the [[Source]] of life. It’s right and responsibility to exist, act properly, rightly relate to all other forms of life, and do what is require to fulfill the [[Highest Intention and Greatest Good]] is not derived from any human source or institution. It is derived directly from the Source and Sustainer of life.

Therefore the new [[Community]] and [[Federation]] would need to be [[Sovereign]], in the same way and according to the same principles as each of its participants was Sovereign. 

And so an [[Ideal]] was established: A sovereign community of sovereign beings, working together in functional unity and right relationship to [[One]], [[One Another]] and [[All]].  

Through great debate and consultation with leading thinkers on how to articulate and mobilize collective action among such a [[Federation]] of [[Sovereigns]], it was determined that a [[Framework]], a [[System]] and a [[Structure]] would be required. 

### 1.2.4.1 The Meta Project Framework
Based on the idea that nearly all human endeavor could be viewed as a project, the idea was conceived of a conceptual overarching and uniting [[Meta Project]]. 

This [[Word Tool]] could be used as one of many ways to orient individual and local Actors to the single overarching and uniting program of action that all humanity was engaged in.

This framework was a way to conceptualize all we must _do_ together. 

### 1.2.4.2 The Meta Community or Meta Federation Framework
Beyond _doing_, it was recognized that such a program of action would require an entirely [[New]] [[Way of Being]] together. 

If we were to succeed in the [[Meta Project]], a [[Meta Community]] or [[Meta Federation]] would be required as a prerequisite.

If we got the [[Community]] and relationships right, everything else would be possible. 

If we failed to get the [[Community]] right, there was no chance of success. 

### 1.2.4.3 Embodying the Abstract
While it was clear that all humanity inherently was a [[Meta Community]] engaged in a [[Meta Project]], whether we recognized it or not, it was also clear that _acting out_ this proposition would require that those abstract ideas descend and embody themselves in a discernible [[Time]], [[Space]], and [[Structure]]. 

Such a [[Federation]] would actually need to be able to relate to the world around it, gather and distribute resources, and speak and act as a Whole. 

This required creating a structural embodiment. 

### 1.2.4.5 The Lionsberg System and Structure
Establishing a structural embodiment that could actually gather and distribute resources, rightly relate to participants, and rightly relate to the world required that something be created and named, which could actually be referred to, registered in different places as needed, take in funds, establish bank accounts, pay taxes, and properly interface with the various elements of the [[Old World]]. 

After considering thousands of names, the mythical name Lionsberg was chosen. 

Recognizing the need for both a [[New]] [[Way of Being]] together, and a new way of acting together, and the need for that way of being and doing to show up in every nation and community around the world...

...it was determined that at the highest level, Lionsberg needed to exist merely as an [[Idea]] or a [[Prototype]] of the [[Ideal]] [[Community]] / [[Federation]]. 

It would need to exist superordinate to any existing nation, institution, or ideology, as a [[Sovereign]] gathering place in which [[Sovereign]] [[Actor|Actors]] could come together to work on the [[One Thing]] that unites [[All]]. 

One level down from the [[Idea]] of Lionsberg, would be a [[Sovereign]] and Voluntary [[Community]] or [[Association]] of [[Individual | Individuals]]. 

Because [[Sovereign]] Individuals have an inherent right and responsiblity to rightly associate and relate to [[One Another]], this would ensure that the highest conceptual level of the [[Community]] / [[Federation]] was not rooted in any institution or organization that could be corrupted, co-opted, stopped, or instructed by any enemy or authority. 

Once established as a conceptual and working reality, a voluntary association of Sovereign Individuals could then begin to add to itself over time the voluntary association or rightly related organizations, communities, and institutions as required to accomplish the Goal. 

It could also begin to establish for itself, in domains around the world, the kinds of legal and technological infrastructure that would be required to accomplish its Goal. 

### 1.2.4.6 Emerging Ideas and Language

Thus, the first thing that was created was the [[Idea]] of a sovereign and rightly related global community that would perpetually embody and move towards the highest intention and greatest good of which it could conceive. We called this the [[Meta Goal]]. 

Being so constituted, Lionsberg began to discern in community what was the highest intention and greatest good, and to establish practices for such discernment.

After numerous iterations, a placeholder description was established as a North Star / Ideal / [[Meta Goal]] to guide the community:

**_The total integral development, wellbeing, and right relationship of all life._**

In the developing language, [[New World]] was used as a [[Word Tool]] to point towards the [[Highest Intention and Greatest Good]] we were moving towards. 

[[Old World]] was used as a [[Word Tool]] to invoke the past corruption, suffering and injustice, that we were moving away from.

The idea of a [[Quest]] was used as a [[Word Tool]] to invoke the epic journey FROM [[Where We Are]] towards the [[Meta Goal]].

And so the idea was established of a [[Meta Quest]]: FROM the [[Old World]] TO the [[New World]]. FROM what is, TO what ought to be. With the New World / Ideal / “what ought to be” defined as the [[The Highest Intention and Greatest Good of Which We Can Presently Conceive]]. 

This [[Meta Quest]] would require unprecedented coordination and logistics across an unprecedented number of people and domains.

The [[Meta Project]] was also used as a word tool to invoke the totality of all required transformation across [[All]] things and [[All]] domains.

As the ideas and language emerged, the next step was to start moving and acting out the ideas.  in order to start moving and acting, [[Lionsberg]] / [[Meta Project]] / [[Meta Quest]]]] would need the ability to receive and allocate funds, make and keep commitments, and generally act a legal “person” in various domains. 

To initially accomplish these functional requirements, a uniquely designed legal structure was instantiated to steward and allocate resources. From the array of design criteria, it was determined that the most secure legal domain for the first instantiation of structure was the United States, that the most secure state within the United States was Delaware, and that the most secure legal stewardship entity available at the time was a 501(C)(3) public charity.

Thus a 501(c)(3) named Lionsberg, Inc. was instantiated to act in the role of temporary Receiver.

The Receiver is charged with:

_Creating a higher order system that integrates all underlying energy, resources, and activity into a functional unity that meets the needs and solves the problems inherent in every individual, organization, community, and ecosystem, for the benefit of all generations of life._

Because the Program of action included the integration of all domains that were previously separated into “for-profit” and “non-profit” activities, the legal structure had to be organically complexities to meet the needs of all types of activity, within a single functional organism.

After networking and consulting with many experts, a C-Corporation, solely owned by the Non-Profit, was established and called Lionsberg Holdings Corporation. This tax paying entity could conduct any activities that a regular for-profit corporation could conduct, while shielding the non-profit from UBIT (unrelated business income tax).

The legal structure was complexified one step further through the creation of platform entities that would act as legal persons in various domains, such as Capital, Real Estate, Architecture Engineering, and Construction, Environmental, Education, Wellness, etc.

This system was adequate to serve as the initial launch vehicle / gathering place for Meta Project resources and infrastructure.

Because this higher order system is inherently sovereign and super-ordinate to existing systems, it is critical to note the Receiver / Lionsberg **_is not_** a US 501(c)(3), but rather that the Receiver _has_ a 501(c)(3) as one of many vehicles through which it is able to functionally act.

Over time and around the world, the legal and organizational infrastructure will necessarily and organically complexify and diversify in order to accomplish the total Program co-operatively across all domains of Worksite: Earth.

The sovereign Receiver, in order to accomplish its goal, can never and will never subordinate Itself to any institution.

The Receiver has done its best to articulate a philosophy, vision, and pragmatic plan of action for bringing the highest intention into reality. This includes transforming the entire living system FROM: its current state of dysfunction and disintegration, TO: a better and higher future state of function and coherence, BY: confronting and overcoming the existential threats facing humanity, and forging the New World out of their ashes.

Around this center of gravity, sovereign individuals and organizations have agreed to begin progressing together and forging various coordination agreements and infrastructure required to accomplish the Goal, **_encompassing all properly ordered nested sub-sets of goals_**.

Among other areas of coordination, the Receiver was tasked with establishing:

·      A Lean Integrated Project Delivery framework

·      A Mission Control Center

·      A Meta Fund to coordinate, validate, and fund measurable progress across a growing system of aligned energy and initiatives. The Meta Fund would be constructed as the higher level system encompassing fractal local fund instantiations.

This initial infrastructure will allow it to take responsibility for mapping, identifying, onboarding, and accelerating Program and Community participants around the world.

  
The heroes are already on the front lines of every battle and every challenge we are facing. We merely need to identify, connect and empower them into a functional unity that has the resources and power required to accomplish the Goal. Together, anything is possible.

As the New World is stabilized and a functioning governance system is established, tested, and proven, the sovereign and decentralized global community will progressively assume full control of Program and Community administration.

