# 1.6 Critical First Steps Towards the Goal
The Program requires a number of critical first steps. The steps, listed below, are not in chronological order, but do reflect some of the major decisions and milestones. 

## 1.6.1 Meta Project Program Statement
Working with various experts across a broad spectrum of domains, the [[Receiver]] developed a draft [[Meta Project Program Statement]] (MPPS) that could be continously improved. The MPPS describes the "What" of the Program. It describes the characteristics of the [[New World]] to be built. It also answers the "Why Build Anything At All?" question. 

The MPPS is emerging through numerous working sessions on various topics, as well as site visits to review existing and desired conditions in various domains. The MPPS is a key element in the planning of the Program and will be used throughout this guide to describe the design and programming needs and acceptance criteria of the [[New World]], along with the major features of the Program required to bring it into existence. 

## 1.6.2 Integrated Program Delivery 
From the available delivery methodologies, an adapted version of Integrated Program Delivery (IPD) was selected for the Program. 

The [[Receiver]] determined that responsibility for the design and implementation of each of the [[Program Components]] would be pushed away from the [[Core Team]] to a distributed network of autonomous Integrated Project Delivery Teams ([[IPD Teams]]), who would coordinate their efforts through the principles and practices of IPD. 

Integrated Project Delivery, using lean principles, was adapted from the manufacturing sector and is designed to maximize the efforts of all participants on the project to deliver the project at the lowest possible cost in the least amount of time that is practical for the project.  At the same time, quality and safety are continuously improved as project delivery progresses. IPD emphasizes planning and design with the entire design / implement / operate team and uses budget, schedule, quality, and safety as design criteria. 

The Program Manager will establish [[IPD Teams]] comprised of leading designers, impact organizations, builders, operators, and specialty trade partners.  The IPD Teams will engage to develop [[The Prototype]], along with the [[Infrastructure]] to empower its localization, adaptation, implementation, and operationalization around the world. 

### 1.6.3 The Prototype
The Program Manager and IPD Teams will use the information contained in the [[Meta Project Program Statement]] to design a prototypical higher order System purpose-built to deliver a continuously improving qualify of life for [[All]]. 

The Prototype will be developed to meet each of the [[Acceptance Criteria]] developed by the [[Meta Project Program Statement]] for the [[New World]]. 

Because of the uncertainty as to the size or shape of any given [[Instantiation]] of the Prototype, or the number that will ultimately need to be locally adapted and implemented, or the geographic location and local conditions of those implementations, or the ways in which each local instance will need to be improved over time, the Prototype is being developed as an [[Interoperability|Interoperable]] [[Kit of Parts]].  

The "kit" contains a number of different options that can be combined in a variety of different sequences and configurations to localize and adapt the System to any domain, to assist in remodeling current facilities and systems, and to guide future facility and system development. 