# 1.7 Integrated Delivery
## 1.3.1 What is Integrated Delivery? 
Integrated Delivery is a philosophic apporach for designing a production or delivery system that maximizes [[Value]] creation, while progressively eliminating [[Waste]]. 

[[Value]] can be defined as [[Throughput]] of the [[Goal]] of the [[System]]. 

Simply put, Integrated Delivery uses lean design-build principles in a process-centered approach to developing and delivering a program of action.  Lean principles were originally implemented in manufacturing and first “discovered” by experts reviewing and documenting the Toyota Production System.  Toyota had shown great success with a new and different type of production line that required each step in the process to produce _only what was needed by the next step in the process_ and to view anything else as waste.  The behaviors and tools used by Toyota were documented and used to define a _lean_ _system_.

Subsequently, it has been discovered that these principles closely map to the way that living systems operate. Over time, the goal of the [[Lionsberg Integrated Delivery System]] is to continually merge the creative capacity of humanity towards harmony with the way Creation itself creates.  

**_The essence of Lean Integrated Project Delivery is to view any program of action as a UNIFIED SYSTEM properly designed to produce throughput of THE GOAL into reality. The Goal is to bring the Design Intent, as articulated in the plans and specification, and as understood through discernment and collaboration, into reality._** 

In the 1990s, various people in the Architecture, Engineering, and Construction industry began developing independent strategies for applying lean principles in the delivery of construction projects. 

When applied to construction, lean changes a project from a combination of activities to a system of dependent and variable tasks that must be managed based upon the unique human interactions that support work being done. In short, it transforms the [[Program of Action]] into a [[Goal Delivery System]]. 

The idea of a **_design build program as a system_** requires all participants to focus on the [[Flow of Work]] on the **_entire project_** and not just for activity optimization within their own silo. **_It requires that all participants work together collaboratively to optimize at the highest level, rather than sub-optimizing at the local level_**.  _Lean Project Delivery_, a term used to describe the application of lean to design-build projects, establishes a project where the owner, the design team, the builder and operational personnel work together to design a project that delivers the owner’s identified goals.  Thinking of a design-build project as a single collective enterprise requires readjusting traditional notions of project delivery and economy.  Like lean manufacturing systems, lean construction and Integrated Project Delivery embraces very specific behaviors and tools, which have a substantially beneficial effect on the entire project.

For the human species at this moment in history, if we do not rapidly embrace a higher order methodology to optimize at the highest integrated level for the wellbeing of [[All]], we will fail.

Let’s not fail.

## 1.7.2 The Five Big Ideas
As lean ideas were being implemented in manufacturing and construction, a set of foundational principles - the Five Big Ideas - were developed and clarified. 

1. Collaborate. Really collaborate. 
2. Increase Right-Relatedness among all [[Participants]]. 
3. Programs are [[Network of Commitments|Networks of Commitments]]
4. Optimize for the [[Whole]], not the pieces. 
5. Tightly couple [[Learning]] with Action. 

## 1.7.3 The Structure 
To implement the [[Five Big Ideas of Integrated Delivery]], the [[Program of Action]] needs a Structure purpose-built to create the conditions and incentives for this type of collaboration and relationship to flourish. See [[Provisional Structure]]. 

## 1.7.4 The Code
To implement the [[Five Big Ideas of Integrated Delivery]], the [[Program of Action]] needs not only a [[Provisional Structure|Structure]], but also a Behavioral and Cultural Code that makes Integrated Delivery possible. See [[Provisional Code]]. 

## 1.7.5 Integrated Delivery Behaviors and Cultural Code
Integrated Delivery requires specific behaviors and cultural norms in order to succeed.  These behaviors support a change in mindset **FROM** individual contracts and [[Self Optimization]]  **TO** a collective endeavor and global optimization.  Collaboration, trust, commitment-based management and continuous improvement are all behaviors required of each individual in an [[Integrated Delivery Environment]].  

Yet we know that laws and contracts are merely the faintest restraints on our worst impulses. It is hard to enforce behavior with laws and contracts. #principle 

When required “behaviors” are seen as the tools used to drive [[Value]] to the endeavor and drive waste and frustration out, they become more pragmatic strategies than social engineering. People need to see the pragmatic value in choosing one set of behaviors over another.

**_These behaviors are valuable because they lead to the collaboration and communication that is necessary to make any complex project successful_**.

Lean Integrated Delivery cultivates the development of teamwork, and a balancing of risks and burdens across the entire [[Integrated Delivery System]]. Right collaborative relationships coupled with lean integrated thinking make rapid iteration and implementation possible. While the relational and cultural side promotes the building of trust, the lean process side promotes the building of quality and reliability. These two go together, as ongoing reliabillity in the [[Network of Commitments]] made and kept is another cornerstone of building trust. Trust as a human attitude arises in conditions of safety and reliability. Reliability comes from the way systems are designed, implemented, and operated, and from the ability of the people operating the systems to understand how their actions affect the Whole. 

Integrated Delivery requires people to focus on **_system performance_**, not just siloed performance.  

The [[Meta Project]] is focused on the total performance of the [[Human System]] and [[Living System]] at the highest possible level. Reliability is created by people making and keeping commitments to get work done within a properly designed system and structure; Lean Integrated Delivery views a project as a **_network of commitments_**, the fulfillment of each making the follow-on performance possible.

These commitments an be **statistically measured within a [[Percent Promises Kept]]** framework that drives [[Accountability]] throughout the System, with a particular focus on the [[Handoff Points]] between teams.

Finally, people and systems are not infallible.  Outcomes will not always match expectations.  Hence, the team must be structured to learn rapidly from [[Variance Between Expected And Actual Outcomes]]. 

Critical behaviors necessary for Integrated Delivery to be successful include:

-   Collaboration
-   Trust
-   Commitment-Based Management
-   Continuous Improvement

### 1.7.5.1 Collaboration
Given the [[Shift In Mindset]] from “silo” to “system,” lean requires collaboration between all the parties involved with a [[Program of Action]].  **_There is only one program, one intention, one vision, one system, and one goal_**. 

This includes the owner, receiver, program manager, IPD Teams, trade partners, operational personnel, and **_the global community that will inherit and operate the System_**. 

For a team of teams to truly succeed and thrive in Integrated Delivery, collaboration must go far beyond intellectual assent to “collaborate”, and into the actual behaviors and verbs that constitute "collaborating."

The goal is to forge living entities that are akin to a single organism, collaborating at the deepest cellular / DNA level for the wellbeing of the greater Whole. This is the essence of true [[Higher Order Functional Unity]]. **_True functional unity of the highest order System is very closely related to the Goal_**.

Collaboration includes transparently and freely sharing information (including real-time issues and concerns) with others and learning from the talents, experiences and performance of others. Real collaboration cannot happen without trust amongst the team members.

### 1.7.5.2 Trust
Trust, both organizational and individual, is required for Integrated Delivery.  Trust must be a common thread running through the entire program and will provide the foundation for [[Collaboration]].  Trust is essentially a decision each person on the project makes every day to trust the other participants. 

Trust requires that we count on the inner sense of responsiblity, integrity, and capability, having faith that others will choose to act in a trustworthy manner, while simutaneously recognizing the possibility that they may choose to betray the faith trust we have placed in them. 

Since each participant is asked to focus on project goals and continuous [[Flow of Work]] through the entire Program, each must be empowered by their organization to interweave the short term goals of the organization with the long term goals of both the project and the overarching Program. 

Trust is realized through fulfilling commitments.  Commitments form the basis of communication between team members.  Team members must request clear and realistic commitments, strive to keep their own commitments, and timely notify team members if a commitment cannot be met.  **_An Integrated Delivery System becomes_** **_a network of commitments that depends upon all participants keeping their commitments (i.e., being trustworthy and reliable)_**. Because policing of individual activities wastes time and effort, team members must rely upon others to honor commitments or to immediately notify the team when confidence is lost in the ability to deliver as promised.

### 1.7.5.3 Commitment Based Management
[[Requests]] and [[Commitments]] between team members are the basis of communication within Lean Integrated Delivery.  **_Simply stated, one party makes a request and another commits to fulfilling that request according to mutually agreed upon [[Conditions of Satisfaction]]_**.  Conditions of Satisfaction are critical to ensuring that both parties understand what satisfaction of the request actually means. This discipline helps avoid miscommunications that erode trust. Commitments are tracked from request to completion in order to promote [[Transparency]] and to allow the team to collectively learn from breakdowns.

### 1.7.5.4 Continuous Improvement 
The [[Attend-Plan-Do-Learn-Act/Adjust]] (APDLA) cycle is at the heart of lean problem analysis, resolution and continuous improvement.  APDLA starts with noting issues and opportunities, examining an existing process, condition or standard procedure and then refining and improving it to create a new standard.  APDLA consists of five stages, including:

1. **Attend** - Pay attention and notice issues and opportunities
2. **Plan** - Investigate the [[Root Cause]] of a issue, and propose a hypothesis for its modification or resolution
3. **Do** - Perform a test implementation of the plan on a small scale
4. **Learn** - Assess the results of the test, and analyze any [[Variance Between Expected And Actual Outcomes]]
5. **Act / Adjust** 
	1. If the results are satisfactory, implement the plan
	2. If the results are not satisfactory, refine the plan / hypothesis and repeat the cycle until satisfactory results are achieved. 
	3. The new improvement becomes the new standard, and process begins again to attain the next improvement. In [[Continuous Improvement]], there is always another improvement to make, always a way to "get a little better every day."

Part of Lean Integrated Delivery is collecting and sharing information on lessons learned throughout the life of the Program.  In lean terms, this is described as [[Continuous Learning]].  Continuous learning adds [[Value]] to the owner as it affects every area of program development and implementation including prototype design, procurement decisions, fiscal reporting, safety and quality issues, project delivery methods, materials choices, vendor offerings, site selections, and operational efficiencies. The idea here is to reflect regularly on circumstances as they develop and to rapidly implement improvement ideas.

**_Integrated Delivery includes the documentation of lessons learned, so that all team members have access to and can share information. Lessons learned should be rapidly shared and propagated across all instantiations of the System_**. 

Numerous tools are used to document lessons learned.  Examples include the use of technology, such as Building Information Modeling (BIM) and cost modeling to continuously capture design choices and update budgets.  A3s, a tool used in lean to analyze and document issues, also become a valuable library of information for all team members.  Social networking software ensures informal knowledge management and sharing between team members.

## 1.7.6 Integrated Delivery and Lean Tools
Integrated Delivery Systems have adapted tools used by lean practitioners in improving [[Value]] creation and eliminating [[Waste]] through design, implementation, and operations. 

[[Tools]] are only used in lean Integrated Delivery Systems where they add [[Value]] to the [[Program]]. Tools used improperly or merely for form create Waste, not Value. Thus, lean tools are efficiency tools used to enhance wise decision making by ensuring transparency and thoroughness.  Each tool relates to one or more of the [[Attend-Plan-Do-Learn-Act/Adjust]] cycles, and is described more fully below.

### 1.7.6.1 A3 Reports
A3 is simply a reference to the size of an 11x17 piece of paper. 

An A3 report is a way of organizing and analyzing issues that requires the team to implement the discipline of the scientific method represented by the [[Attend-Plan-Do-Learn-Act/Adjust]] cycle.  This system rigorously distills the background, the problem, the current state, the future desired state and the proposed counter-measures to get to the future state all on a single, 11” by 17” piece of paper.  

The purpose of the A3 process is to structure efficient and effective dialogue, in a way that creates the opportunity for deep understanding and agreement. The resulting genuine communication and dialogue leads to better decisions, in which the proposed countermeasures are more likely to succeed, because they are based on [[Evidence]] 

John Shook, the best known “A3” guru has explained the process as follows:  “. . . an A3 document structures effective and efficient dialogue that fosters understanding followed by the opportunity for deep agreement.   It’s a tool that engenders communication and dialogue in a manner that leads to good decisions, where the proposed countermeasures have a better chance of being effective because they are based on facts and data gathered at the place where the work is performed, from the people who perform it.” [[1]](#_ftn1)

  

---

[[1]](#_ftnref1) From John Shook (2008) _Managing to Learn_, The Lean Enterprise Institute, Inc, Cambridge MA p. 107; [http://www.lean.org/workshops/WorkshopDescription.cfm?WorkshopId=34](http://www.lean.org/workshops/WorkshopDescription.cfm?WorkshopId=34)