# 2.0 Program Development
## 2.1 Chapter Introduction
### 2.1.1 The What and Why of the Program

The program objective - the answer to the question “why build anything" - was defined by the Receiver in the [[Meta Project Program Statement]], and in a more comprehensive way in the [[The Book of Lionsberg]]. This longer document lays out the Receiver’s initial attempt to forge a complete historical and philosophical understanding of [[Where We Are]], [[How We Got Here]], [[Where We Are Going]], and [[Why]] it matters. 

**_The Program is intended to encompass the total [[Program of Action]] required to get FROM where we are, TO where we ought to go_**_._

### 2.1.2 Context of This Chapter of the Guide

The [[Integrated Delivery Guide]] lays out a proven System through which a global community of sovereign individuals, organizations, and communities can forge the functional unity required to succeed, and avoid failure, in the [[Meta Project]]. 

[[Program Development]] deals with the processes adopted and continuously improved to manage the continued development of the total Program. 

### 2.1.3 The [[Meta Project Program Statement]]

This Chapter describes the interplay between the [[Meta Project Program Statement]]  and the development of the Program.  The MPPS describes [[How]] the New World will deliver access to a continuously improving quality of life for [[All]]. 

### 2.1.4 The Prototype

This Chapter also discusses how [[The Prototype]] is being developed as a “kit of parts” in order to accommodate the current and changing needs of the diverse global population.  This is accomplished through interoperable fractal elements of the [[New World]] that can be combined in many ways and sequences to serve the unique needs of each specific individual, organization, and community. 

### 2.1.5 Availability and Priority of Instantiation Sites
Important to the delivery of the Program is determining the **_availability and priority of sites / domains for implementation_**, and the opportunities and constraints each potential domain brings.  In addition to basic implementation challenges, these constraints include environmental challenges, political challenges, and social challenges. Potential sites whose feasibility has been established will require various [[Mitigation Measures]] to **_ensure that the transformation of the local site helps, and does not harm, the existing ecology, culture, and community._**

### 2.1.6 Adverse Forces
The initial Meta Project analysis phase revealed a variety of entrenched government, corporate, and criminal organizations whose positions of power and wealth very much depend on keeping local communities and ecosystems poor, in the dark, and exploited. **_These organizations will not readily stop this exploitation, and thefore a robust plan of security, enforcement, and transformation with some significant strength and teeth in it will need to be developed_**. This issue must be stared straight in the face, and Program participants trained and prepared for inevitable backlash from existing forces who oppose the Program.  

### 2.1.7 System Wide Master Plan
Guideline development and program validation support the utility of convening a [[System Wide Master Plan|System Wide Master Planning]] process for determining exactly how the Program can most effectively be delivered. The Master Planning effort will continue to inform the [[Meta Project Program Statement]] and will impact how each [[Project]] within the Program is delivered.  **_A coordinated System for developing and delivering the basic resources, infrastructure, and services that solve the problems inherent in every individual, organization and community is necessary to achieve the goals of this Program; therefore a system-wide approach is needed._**

### 2.1.8 Living System Alignment
It is critical that this System-wide master planning, and the total effort to design, build, and activate the [[New System]], is never divorced from its fundamental unity and harmonization with the [[Living System]] that sustians all life. A central element of this Program is the re-integration of human life, consciousness, systems, and society with the total living system so that all life can flourish in harmony over the millennia. **_There is only one world, and it belongs to all its inhabitants_**. 

### 2.1.9 Program Services and Support 
Finally, this Chapter considers what Program services and support is necessary and how that will be provided through the [[Core Enterprise]] and its constituent parts.  This will include technology, financial management, operational management, cultural management, adminsitration, dispute resolution and necessary reporting and communication, both internally among IPD Teams, and outwardly to the Whole. 

## 2.2 Program Planning and Guidelines
### 2.2.1 The Meta Project Program Statement
The Receiver identified the need to design and build a new higher order system that integrated all underlying systems, resources, and energy into a functional unity that met the needs and solved the problems inherent in every individual, organization, and community on earth. 

The programmatic components of the System were developed and are articulated in the [[Meta Project Program Statement]] (MPPS). The MPPS identifies programmatic components for the New World, and describes how they address the total spiritual, intellectual, and physical needs of the global community. It is intended to be a living document that continuously elevates as the elements of the program become more articulated and/or are adjusted as part of the continuous improvement program.

The development of the [[Meta Project Program Statement]] began in 2017.  The effort initially included strategists, designers, planners, programmers, technologists, attorneys, consultants and operations staff from a variety of different organizations and viewpoints. It was expanded to include a growing array of perspectives between 2020 and 2022. **_The MPPS and [[The Book of Lionsberg]] are both Works in Progress and are the initial best efforts of the Receiver to distill the wisdom from around the world and across the millennia, couple it with modern realities and best practices, listen carefully to the global community, and articulate a statement of the programmatic needs of a fully functional and flourishing New Era self-operated and self-sustained by a sovereign and empowered global community_**. The MPPS contains initial descriptions of the physical attributes, operational descriptions and requirements of of the primary elements that might be contained in the Prototype, which could be rapidly iterated, replicated and scaled relatively simultaneously around the world. The rapid and simultaneous scaling of [[The Prototype]] through shared [[Infrastructure]] is a critical design criteria, given the urgent existential threats. It is also critical that all replications of the Prototype contain the core architecture and system components that forge their **_networked interexistence and interoperability with the total System_**.  

The MPPS incorporates articulations of higher order systems of education, wellbeing, ecology, governance, administration, economy, culture and values, meaning, right relationship, and other information required for all generations of life to discover and achieve their unique potential, and flourish in harmony.

The sections of the [[Meta Project Program Statement]] include the following:

1. Why  
2. Basis of Design  
3. Intention  
4. Purpose and Meaning  
5. Alignment  
6. Culture and Values  
7. Right Relationship  
8. Learning  
9. Wellbeing  
10. Living System(s)  
11. Land  
12. Air  
13. Water   
14. Infrastructure  
15. Governance  
16. Administration  
17. Economy  
18. Spirituality  
19. Reconciliation  
20. Transforming Weaponry  
21. Flourishing  

The MPPS describes a proposed [[New System]] that integrates and elevates all life without exception. The System will create an unprecedented wave of truly valuable and regenerative systems, facilities and infrastructure. These elements will create meaningful work, relationships, and quality of life for the global community over generations to come.

The architecture of the System is intended to encompass and elevate all aspects of the [[Human System]] and the [[Living System]] wihtout exception. All elements of the System will be built in a regenerative way that transforms the negative externalities associated with the Old World into a truly synergistic spiral of all life and systems upwards towards the [[Meta Goal]] of the Program.

The [[Core Enterprise]] will provide oversight of the MPPS to ensure it remains consistent with the Receiver’s Intention and Goal, is updated to reflect learning during design, build and operationaliation, and that constructed systems, facilities, and infrastructure comport with the design intent, which is the [[Highest Intention and Greatest Good]] for [[All]]. 

The latest edition of the living [[Meta Project Program Statement]] can be found at the link in this sentence. It will continue to be elevated and improved over time. 

## 2.2.2 The Prototype
[[The Prototype]] is a living conceptual model developed by the Program.  It is being developed in an effort to take the [[Conditions of Satisfaction]] articulated in the [[Meta Project Program Statement]], and turn them into a working prototypical system that can be locally adapted and implemented. 

The Prototype was developed to allow flexibility in responding to the emerging determination of the following:

- The unique arrangement of any given System instance;
- The scale of any given System instance;
- The components of the System that will need to be designed, built, or transformed in any instance; 
- The geographic location of the instance, and 
- The unique sequences in which elements will be prioritized for instantiation.

By instance or [[Instantiation]], we mean any local or global domain in which the System is implemented. 

Given the uncertainty surrounding the condition of existing systems and forecasts of future population, demographic, and environmental changes, the Prototype is being designed to adapt to various needs, including 1) designing and building [[New System]] elements from the ground up, 2) transforming / remodeling existing system elements, and / or 3) removing and replacing elements of the Old that are incompatible with the New.

Like the [[Meta Project Program Statement]] and the [[Program]], [[The Prototype]] is a “living” experiment.  At the early stages of development, the Prototype will be more general in nature, demonstrating the primary architectural features and operational criteria.  As the Program becomes more defined and reaches higher levels of articulation, the Prototype will evolve in its development as well.  Key development phases will include:

1.  Prototype Development and the Kit of Parts
2.  Preliminary Design and Site Adaptation
3.  Detailed Design, Build, and Operationalization Documents
4.  Prototype Control
5.  Prototype Replication and Scaling

The following section will discuss Phase 1 - Prototype Development and the Kit of Parts.  Phases 2-4 will be reviewed in detail in subsequent sections of this Guide.

The initial development of the Prototype will result in a conceptual [[Kit of Parts]]. The kit of parts represents the primary potential physical, structural, cultural, and technological elements necessary to support the various programmatic components identified in the MPPS.  Whether the instantiation is a new build, and transformation, or a remove and replace, the Kit of Parts approach ensures a design solution that provides uniform and interoperable opportunity for any individual, organization, or community to develop and achieve its [[Potential]] and flourish in local and global community.

The following describes some preliminary components included in the kit of parts:

###  2.2.2.1 Integrated Architecture Plan (IAP)

The [[Integrated Architecture Plan]] orients all [[IPD Teams]] to the total Program design, why it is crucial to our survival as a species, and why it is critical to optimize for the success of the total System, rather than any sub-system. This is crucial to ensuring that all sub-systems are designed to be interoperable and help all other sub-systems [[Spiral Upward]] towards the Goal. In order to prevent IPD Teams from inadvertently wasting time, money, energy, and sub-optimizing, no IPD Team or initiative should be initiated or integrated without a thorough understanding of its relationship to the IAP and the Meta Project as a Whole.

#### 2.2.2.2 Physical and Systems Plans and Specifications

Plans and specifications will be developed based on the most current MPPS and any further Program development or modifications.  All architectural plans will be developed indicating purpose, intention, requirements for local and global interoperability, the general scope and scale configurations, materials and technology requirements, [[Conditions of Satisfaction]], and all other information appropriate to the specific element being addressed, to an appropriate level of detail to allow for budgeting, planning, and design-build proposals from [[IPD Teams]]. 

#### 2.2.2.3 Integrated Safety and Security Plan (ISSP)

The Integrated Safety and Security Plan, or ISSP, is a design document which records safety and security systems, their related operational decisions, and staffing in one document.

The development of the ISSP starts as an extension of the MPPS and continues in logical steps to its completion.  The ISSP is being developed to reflect the full range of safety and security issues, from minimum to high degrees of severity and risk, considering the realities in different parts of the world. 

The final work product is a Integrated Plan that combines all of these components into a highly descriptive document, and comprehensively defines and directs safety and security design requirements for each instance, and for the Whole. 

#### 2.2.2.4 Structural Building Blocks
Major structural building blocks and sub-systems for the System are shown, including how they are connected to local / fractal instantiations to ensure global interoperability and resource flow. Each essential element will be identified and shown, as well as optional additional elements. Requirements will be identified to help calculate the load that each element of the system will be required to bear to prevent local failure, and how energy and resources will be allocated to meet the loads. General requirements for the foundations of the systems and infrastructure will be identified. Scale and scope requirements will be identified in ranges for budgeting and planning purposes.

#### 2.2.2.5 Logistics and Distribution Systems
Major logistics and distribution systems and their general functions will be determined, with a focus on the connection / [[Handoff Points]] points where local meets regional meets global systems. Resource distribution systems and their general functions will be determined.  The general layout of the central (if any) and regional distribution hubs will be included.  Systems, equipment, facilities, loads, sizing, and placement will be identified for the global and regional scales. Standards and best practices for all major system components will be articulated, as well as delivery guides for the "last mile" connections to local instantiations. 

#### 2.2.2.6 Toxins and Waste

Disposal and cleansing systems for toxins and waste, and their local, regional, and global interrelationships and impacts will be determined. Primary sources and Root Causes of waste and toxins will be identified, and frameworks will be established to empower local instantiations of the System to stop waste and toxins at their source, while cleansing and regenerating the [[Living System]]. Major toxin and waste hubs will be identified, with plans for short and medium term management and long term elimination. Special attention will be paid to systems and methodologies for dealing the small percentage of sites and causes driving the bulk of pollution. 

####  2.2.2.7 Disaster Prevention and Emergency Response
Disasters will be analyzed and categorized, and root cause analysis performed. Appropriate prevention and response systems will be intelligently established based on risk analysis amplified for future uncertainty and unpredictability. All planning and analysis should be based on the fact that we are entering an entirely unpredictable new season of life on earth, which may be far less stable than the recent past until the System has been established, the wounds have been healed, and New normal is forged. Systems that are fragile to unpredictability  should be transformed. Systems that are globally dependent should be relocalized. This analysis should apply to disasters of every type, across all systems, including but not limited to natural, political, social, and health systems. This element of the plan should not be underestimated. In seasons of historic transition and transformation, we cannot overprepare or become overly antifragile.

#### 2.2.2.8 Energy
Energy systems, and their local, regional, and global interrelationships and impacts will be determined. Primary requirements and loads will be established and listed by region. General fractal deployment concepts to make the energy from the sun, wind, and gravity available in all domains of inhabitation will be articulated. Major energy transport systems will be re-evaluated, and a global plan established for local and regional energy sovereignty and access enacted. 

#### 2.2.2.9 Aesthetics, Recreation, and Comfort
The basic patterns that foster a sense of beauty, recreation, and comfort in a community will be identified and mapped in a [[Pattern Language]] that can be fractally replicated at appropriate local scales. Major systems and facilities that impact community spaces will be identified, and recommendations provided for creating life-giving patterns of coherence in any local space.   

Planning and budgeting shall include provisions to provide for aesthetics, recreation, and comfort in addition to pragmatic function.

#### 2.2.2.10 Water Systems
Plans for healing and regenerating the living waters of the earth shall be established. The major water systems shall be mapped and articulated by watershed. Local watershed councils shall be established to learn together and share best practices for transforming watershed health. A basic global water quality monitoring system shall be established rooted in decentralized local [[Citizen Science]]. Frameworks shall be established for identifying the root causes of water pollution, and stopping water pollution at its source.

The water that cleanses and gives life to all things is not for sale or exploitation. All global water agreements shall be re-evaluated as necessary to return water sovereignty to local communities and ecosystems. All rights to pollute or exploit water shall be systematically revoked and transformed into agreements of stewardship for the wellbeing of all generations of life.

#### 2.2.2.11 Land Systems
Plans for healing and regenerating the land and soil shall be established. The major land systems shall be mapped and articulated. Local land councils shall be established to learn together and share best practices for transforming land and soil health. A basic global land-quality monitoring system shall be established rooted in decentralized local [[Citizen Science]].  Frameworks shall be established for identifying the root causes of land and soil degradation, and stopping degenerative activity at its source.

The land and soil that nourishes and gives life to all things is not for sale or exploitation. All global land agreements shall be re-evaluated as necessary to return land sovereignty to local communities and ecosystems. All rights to pollute, degenerate, or exploit land shall be systematically revoked and transformed into agreements of stewardship for the wellbeing of all generations of life.

#### 2.2.2.12 Air Systems
Plans for healing and regenerating the air all life breathes shall be established. The major air systems shall be mapped and articulated. Local air councils shall be established to learn together and share best practices for transforming air health. A basic global air-quality monitoring system shall be established rooted in decentralized local [[Citizen Science]]. Frameworks shall be established for identifying the root causes of air quality degradation, and stopping degenerative activity at its source.

The air that all life breathes is not for sale or exploitation. All global air agreements shall be re-evaluated as necessary to return air sovereignty to local communities and ecosystems. All rights to pollute, degenerate, or exploit the air shall be systematically revoked and transformed into agreements of stewardship for the wellbeing of all generations of life.

#### 2.2.2.13 Food Systems 
Plans for ensuring that all life has access to pure high quality food shall be established. The major food systems and supply chains shall be mapped and articulated. Local food councils shall be established to learn together and share best practices for transforming food sovereignty. A basic global food-quality monitoring system shall be established rooted in decentralized local [[Citizen Science]]. Frameworks shall be established for identifying the root causes of food quality and agricultural land quality degeneration, and stopping toxic foods and food-practices at their source. Fractally replicable building blocks shall be established to systematically re-localize, re-naturalize, and re-complexity food systems to ensure local and regional food sovereignty.

#### 2.2.2.14 Capital and Debt Systems
Plans for healing and regenerating individuals, organizations, and communities plagued by existing capital and debt systems shall be established. Major systems of capital and debt shall be mapped and articulated. Local capital councils shall be established to learn together and share best practices for transforming the local creation and exchange of value. A basic global capital-quality monitoring system shall be established rooted in decentralized local [[Citizen Science]]]]. Frameworks shall be established for identifying the root causes of capital and debt exploitation, and for stopping harmful capital and debt activity at its source.

The regenerative creation and exchange of [[Value]] amongst the inhabitants of the earth is not for sale or exploitation. All capital and debt agreements shall be re-evaluated as necessary to return financial and economic sovereignty to local communities and ecosystems. All rights to degenerate and exploit people, communities, and ecosystems shall be systematically revoked and transformed into agreements of stewardship for the wellbeing of all generations of life.

Special care shall be taken to ensure that systems of exchange cannot be boxed in or subjected to totalitarian or oligarchical manipulation or control. 

#### 2.2.2.15 Economic Systems
Plans for the overall production and consumption of goods shall be established, in a way that rightly relates all other components to one another and the [[Living System]]. 

#### 2.2.2.16 Systems of Regenerative Justice
Plans for healing and regenerating individuals, organizations, and communities plagued by corruption, injustice, or oppression shall be established. Major systems of sovereignty and justice shall be mapped and articulated. Local sovereignty and justice councils shall be established to learn together and shared best practices for transforming and establishing local systems of sovereignty and justice. A basic global sovereignty and justice monitoring system shall be established rooted in decentralized local [[Citizen Science]]. Frameworks shall be established for identifying the root causes of injustice and lack of individual and local sovereignty, and for restoring justice and sovereignty to all individual beings.

The individual sovereignty and worth of all sacred forms of life, and especially of creatively conscious human beings, is not for sale or exploitation. All systems of justice and delegation of authority shall be re-evaluated as necessary to return individual and local sovereignty and justice to local communities and ecosystems The System shall ensure that all authority flows properly from its Source throughout the living system without corruption or interruption. All rights to exploit any form of life, or remove its individual sovereignty or [[Free Will]], shall be systematically revoked and transformed into new agreements which establish and respect the irrevocable sovereignty, rights, and responsibilities of each individual being in direct right relationship to all other beings and their [[Source]]. 

#### 2.2.2.17 Community Development System
All components of the System will integrated into a integrated [[Community Development System]], through which any local community can progressively discover and realize its unique potential in harmony with all other global communities engaged in the System. 

#### 2.2.2.18 Organizational Development System
An [[Organizational Development System]] shall be developed, through which any organization can progressively discover and realize its unique potential in harmony with all other organizations engaged in the System. 

#### 2.2.2.19 Human Development System
A [[Human Development System]] shall be developed, through which any individual can progressively discover and achieve their unique potential in harmony with all other individuals engaged in the System. 

### 2.2.3 Program Requirements 

#### 2.2.3.1 Plans and Specifications 
The total concept and design of [[The Prototype]] will be ariticulated in a set of [[Plans And Specifications]]. The Plans and Specifications shall outline not only the functioning of the System and Prototype, but also the way in which it will be instantiated locally, and the way in which all instantiations can interoperate for the good of [[All]]. 

The Plans and Specifications, this Program Delivery Guide, the [[Meta Project Program Statement]], and the [[The Book of Lionsberg]] manuscript will be formatted and made available digitally in as many languages as possible relatively simultaneously around the globe. **_This is critical so that the pattern language can be activated in unison by IPD Teams around the world, around interconnected local and regional nodes, so that the pattern of transformation / global movement towards the Goal cannot be interrupted by any attack_**.

#### 2.2.3.2 Program Schedule
An overall [[Program Schedule]] will be developed and will reflect key milestones established in conjunction with the plans and pull planning sessions including all key stakeholders for each phase. 

The schedule will be broken out into a [[Work Breakdown Structure]] (WBS) that will incorporate all relevant systems, goals, and [[Action Domains]], as well as regional and cultural [[Integration Domains]].

The [[Program Schedule]] shall either be unified with, or reflect all elements of, the [[System Wide Master Plan]]. 

The full schedule will be updated, cycled, and published no less than every month, with a formal update presented to the [[Receiver]] each month.

#### 2.2.3.3 Planning System
The [[Program Schedule]] shall be part of an integrated [[Planning System]]. 

#### 2.2.3.4 Mission Control 
A [[Mission Control]] function or guild shall be established to provide rigorous monitoring, controls, and variance reporting spanning the entire [[Program]]. 

Mission Control shall include intelligent [[Dashboard|Dashboards]] that track activity, progress, and issues across the entire [[Program]] to facilitate high quality and timely [[Decision Making]]. At a minimum, the Mission Control Dashboard will flag issues and variances, and provide Green, Yellow, and Red health indicators for all key teams, projects, and domains, as well as for the Program as a Whole. 

#### 2.2.3.5 Domain Councils
Each [[Action Domain]] and each [[Integration Domain]] will establish a [[Domain Council]] to discern and guide intention and strategy. Domain Councils operate in service and support to the leaders, organizations, and best ideas being generated in a given domain. The highest intention and strategy that the Domain Councils can discern should be funded / empowered / accelerated for successful IPD Team implementation.

Domain Councils will be responsible for protecting and continuously elevating the quality of the intention and strategy for the domain.

#### 2.2.3.6 Integrated Project Delivery Teams (IPD Teams)
IPD Teams will voluntarily take responsibility for executing on the intention and strategy discerned by the Domain Councils, and for regularly reporting on progress, issues, and improvements.

IPD Teams will be sovereign and autonomous, and take action on a purely voluntary basis in response to the needs and critical path discerned by the Whole. 

IPD Teams will _not_ be directed or controlled from "above". 

IPD Teams will be intentionally cultivated and balanced by the [[Federation]] to ensure a proper array of personality types, skill sets, and leadership on each team. IPD Teams will be designed so that they can function and carry out their [[Commitments]] regardless of connection to the Meta Project infrastructure and services that support them.

The global network of IPD Teams should plan for periodic separation in their ability to communicate with and receive support from [[Headquarters]] / the [[Core Enterprise]].

Eventually, it may be wise for each IPD Team to have an embedded Headquarters element to serve as a advocate / liason between Headquarters and the IPD Team, and operate as a voice of the Whole in the event of any disruption in communications or support. 

#### 2.2.3.7 Guilds / Communities of Practice
Guilds will take responsibility for organizing, training, mentoring, and sharing knowledge among various trades or communities of practice.

Guilds should establish programs for discerning aptitude, apprenticing, and ensuring continuity of development and deployment among its members throughout the Whole. 

Guilds should coordinate with one another and the IPD Teams to ensure appropriate representation of the right skills and perspectives, at the right times, for the right reasons among the various teams and System elements. 

#### 2.2.3.8 Headquarters 
The [[Receiver]] and Program Manager shall establish a digital, and physical if necessary, [[Headquarters]] to guide, empower, and coordinate the efforts fo the globally distributed IPD Teams. 

[[Headquarters]] will be the nominal "place" from which the [[Core Enterprise]] operates in service of the Whole. 

Headquarters shall ensure that IPD Teams, while operating in functional unity, are each strong, self-sustaining and capable of surviving and accomplishing their Goal even if they were to lose contact with Headquarters or a portion of the distributed network of IPD Teams for a significant period of time.

[[Headquarters]] shall train, empower and embed HQ elements in each IPD Team as necessary to represent and advocate for the integrity, understanding, and optimization of the Whole to the IPD Team, and to advocate for the sovereignty and local issues and needs of the IPD Team to Headquarters. 

#### 2.2.3.9 Services and Support 
The Program Manager and [[Core Enterprise]] will establish operational criteria for the Service and Support functions required to empower the network of IPD Teams.

This includes determing logistically how to connect up thousands or millions of such teams around the world with the knowledge, resources, services, information, and technology they need to efficiently advance. 

#### 2.2.3.10 Logistics and Supply Chains
The global logistics and supply chain should be evaluated, and should include efforts to simultaneously leverage joint scale and purchasing power for resource intensive components of the System, while focusing on local sourcing and capacity building to strengthen local domains. Logistics and supply chain systems should ensure that IPD Teams have a way to communicate needs and gaps in resources, in a way that the [[Program]] can efficiently respond to. 

#### 2.2.3.11 Consulting Guilds
Experts will be required in a variety of areas. The following consulting guilds have been identified as key early participants in the future refinement of the prototype and kit of parts. These consulting guilds may substantially overlap with, or be folded into, the domain councils. 

1.     **Regulatory and Code Consulting** - A strategy and plan will be developed to keep the Program in compliance with various global jurisdictions, while transforming laws and authority where they stand in the way of the wellbeing of life.

2.     **Security Consulting** - Communication, electronic, IT, software, hardware, conferencing, and physical security systems will be identified, described, specified, and mapped. Security plans for global operations in dangerous zones shall be specified and mapped. Security plans, as they are developed, should provide frameworks for identifying and transforming the root causes of violence and fear in an area.

3.     **Health and Wellness** – All primary components of health and wellness shall be identified, along with the basic process and frameworks for giving people the opportunity to progress from their current state of wellbeing, towards their best and highest potential, by diagnosing and curing the root causes of illness and suffering. Major system components will be mapped, and plans for fractal deployments developed. These plans should include a global tele-wellness platform to link international resources to underserved local needs.

4.     **Learning** – A strategy and plan will be developed to provide a system of interactive, project-based, life-long learning and development for all project participants. This platform should be developed in such a way it can be extended into a learning and development platform available to the entire Global Community, to ensure that every being has the opportunity to discover and achieve their potential.

5.     **Work Flow Consultants / Value Stream Mapping** – Utilizing the value stream mapping (VSM) process (or better), functional spaces and staffing will be adjusted based on the analysis and benchmarking of current and industry best practices. The work will provide updates to the staffing and space needs resulting in the basis of operations development and training.

6.     **Military and Law Enforcement** - A strategy and plan will be developed for engaging with local military and law enforcement, across the highly complex range of quality and corruption present around the world. Plans will be developed to leverage and connect forces of goodwill, while neutralizing and protecting against corrupt forces.

**7.**     **Energy** - This effort will define energy usage and allocation. Based on current operating practices and future design opportunities, energy use and conservation strategies will be developed to provide for best practices related to procurement and consumption. Energy modeling will be performed as the design options are developed to support and inform system and utilization choices. The modeling will include demand analysis, seasonal profiles, and plans for regional balancing. Options for evaluation will include design/build/operate feasibility and scalability.

#### 2.2.3.12 Functional Organization Chart
Deployment of appropriate resources requires organizing around the processes necessary to efficiently and effectively complete each phase of the Program. A single [[Functional Organization Chart]] (“FOC”) should be developed and maintained, which views all IPD team members as members of a single entity, as if they all operated within a single organization.  

This view is designed to use the best resources available on the Program regardless of that resource’s “home” organization. 

The FOC first describes functions, or categories of processes, required to successfully complete the program in the fastest and most cost-effective manner.  Within each function, the relevant processes are described.  For each specific process, each task needed to complete the process is designated and then each task is broken down into a job description.

This level of functional systems mapping should occur in concert with the [[Value Stream Mapping]] efforts elsewhere. 

#### 2.2.3.13 Redundancy Among All Functions and Domains
In the distributed global [[Federation]] of sovereign individuals, organizations, and communities, every function and every domain should have redundancy. 

No one sovereign owns any functional or domain area, and all single points of failure should be specifically and progressively eliminated. 

### 2.2.4 Quality and Safety