# 2.0 Program Development
## 2.1 Chapter Introduction
### 2.1.1 The What and Why of the Program

The program objective - the answer to the question “why build anything" - was defined by the Receiver in the [[Meta Project Program Statement]], and in a more comprehensive way in the [[The Book of Lionsberg]]. This longer document lays out the Receiver’s initial attempt to forge a complete historical and philosophical understanding of [[Where We Are]], [[How We Got Here]], [[Where We Are Going]], and [[Why]] it matters. 

**_The Program is intended to encompass the total [[Program of Action]] required to get FROM where we are, TO where we ought to go_**_._

### 2.1.2 Context of This Chapter of the Guide

The [[Intergrated Delivery Guide]] lays out a proven System through which a global community of sovereign individuals, organizations, and communities can forge the functional unity required to succeed, and avoid failure, in the [[Meta Project]]. 

[[Program Development]] deals with the processes adopted and continuously improved to manage the continued development of the total Program. 

### 2.1.3 The [[Meta Project Program Statement]]

This Chapter describes the interplay between the [[Meta Project Program Statement]]  and the development of the Program.  The MPPS describes [[How]] the New World will deliver access to a continuously improving quality of life for [[All]]. 

### 2.1.4 The Prototype

This Chapter also discusses how [[The Prototype]] is being developed as a “kit of parts” in order to accommodate the current and changing needs of the diverse global population.  This is accomplished through interoperable fractal elements of the [[New World]] that can be combined in many ways and sequences to serve the unique needs of each specific individual, organization, and community. 

### 2.1.5 Availability and Priority of Instantiation Sites
Important to the delivery of the Program is determining the **_availability and priority of sites / domains for implementation_**, and the opportunities and constraints each potential domain brings.  In addition to basic implementation challenges, these constraints include environmental challenges, political challenges, and social challenges. Potential sites whose feasibility has been established will require various [[Mitigation Measures]] to **_ensure that the transformation of the local site helps, and does not harm, the existing ecology, culture, and community._**

### 2.1.6 Adverse Forces
The initial Meta Project analysis phase revealed a variety of entrenched government, corporate, and criminal organizations whose positions of power and wealth very much depend on keeping local communities and ecosystems poor, in the dark, and exploited. **_These organizations will not readily stop this exploitation, and thefore a robust plan of security, enforcement, and transformation with some significant strength and teeth in it will need to be developed_**. This issue must be stared straight in the face, and Program participants trained and prepared for inevitable backlash from existing forces who oppose the Program.  

### 2.1.7 System Wide Master Plan
Guideline development and program validation support the utility of convening a System Wide Master Planning process for determining exactly how the Program can most effectively be delivered. The Master Planning effort will continue to inform the [[Meta Project Program Statement]] and will impact how each [[Project]] within the Program is delivered.  **_A coordinated System for developing and delivering the basic resources, infrastructure, and services that solve the problems inherent in every individual, organization and community is necessary to achieve the goals of this Program; therefore a system-wide approach is needed._**

### 2.1.8 Living System Alignment
It is critical that this System-wide master planning, and the total effort to design, build, and activate the [[New System]], is never divorced from its fundamental unity and harmonization with the [[Living System]] that sustians all life. A central element of this Program is the re-integration of human life, consciousness, systems, and society with the total living system so that all life can flourish in harmony over the millennia. **_There is only one world, and it belongs to all its inhabitants_**. 

### 2.1.9 Program Services and Support 
Finally, this Chapter considers what Program services and support is necessary and how that will be provided through the [[Core Enterprise]] and its constituent parts.  This will include technology, financial management, operational management, cultural management, adminsitration, dispute resolution and necessary reporting and communication, both internally among IPD Teams, and outwardly to the Whole. 

## 2.2 Program Planning and Guidelines
### 2.2.1 The Meta Project Program Statement
The Receiver identified the need to design and build a new higher order system that integrated all underlying systems, resources, and energy into a functional unity that met the needs and solved the problems inherent in every individual, organization, and community on earth. 

The programmatic components of the System were developed and are articulated in the [[Meta Project Program Statement]] (MPPS). The MPPS identifies programmatic components for the New World, and describes how they address the total spiritual, intellectual, and physical needs of the global community. It is intended to be a living document that continuously elevates as the elements of the program become more articulated and/or are adjusted as part of the continuous improvement program.

The development of the [[Meta Project Program Statement]] began in 2017.  The effort initially included strategists, designers, planners, programmers, technologists, attorneys, consultants and operations staff from a variety of different organizations and viewpoints. It was expanded to include a growing array of perspectives between 2020 and 2022. **_The MPPS and [[The Book of Lionsberg]] are both Works in Progress and are the initial best efforts of the Receiver to distill the wisdom from around the world and across the millennia, couple it with modern realities and best practices, listen carefully to the global community, and articulate a statement of the programmatic needs of a fully functional and flourishing New Era self-operated and self-sustained by a sovereign and empowered global community_**. The MPPS contains initial descriptions of the physical attributes, operational descriptions and requirements of of the primary elements that might be contained in the Prototype, which could be rapidly iterated, replicated and scaled relatively simultaneously around the world. The rapid and simultaneous scaling of [[The Prototype]] through shared [[Infrastructure]] is a critical design criteria, given the urgent existential threats. It is also critical that all replications of the Prototype contain the core architecture and system components that forge their **_networked interexistence and interoperability with the total System_**.  

The MPPS incorporates articulations of higher order systems of education, wellbeing, ecology, governance, administration, economy, culture and values, meaning, right relationship, and other information required for all generations of life to discover and achieve their unique potential, and flourish in harmony.

The sections of the NWPS include the following:

1. Why  
2. Basis of Design  
3. Intention  
4. Purpose and Meaning  
5. Alignment  

·      Culture and Values

·      Education

·      Wellbeing

·      Ecological Systems

·      Land, Air, and Water Systems

·      Governance

·      Administration

·      Economy

·      Reconciliation

·      Transforming Weaponry

·      Culture and Values

·      Right Relationship

The NWPS describes a proposed New World System that integrates and elevates all life without exception. The System will create an unprecedented wave of truly valuable and regenerative systems, facilities and infrastructure. These elements will create meaningful work, relationships, and quality of life for the Global Community over generations to come.

The architecture of the System elevates and encompasses all aspects of human system and living system. In accordance with the highest intention, all elements of the System will be built in a regenerative way that transforms the negative externalities associated with the Old World into a truly synergistic spiral of all life and systems upwards towards the Goal of the Program.

The SLE will provide oversight of the NWPS to ensure it remains consistent with the Receiver’s mission, is updated to reflect learning during design, build and operations, and that constructed systems, facilities, and infrastructure comport with the design intent.

The latest edition of the living  New World Program Statement has been published on the internet at [(XXX)](http://www.Lionsberg.org). The NWPS will continue to be revised and improved over time, as the Program becomes increasingly well articulated through the Continuous Improvement Program.