# 0.5 Authority
This approach removes all precedent, category, and previous human, scientific, or religious authority, and forces the hearer to evaluate the articulated ideas on their own merit, based on their own unique experience, wisdom, and discernment. It prohibits the hearer from being able to support or dismiss the ideas based on a preconceived ideological or religious category or authority.  

These words are merely intended as tools to point _beyond_ themselves to the ineffable [[Ultimate Reality]] that lies beyond all words and propositions. Everything in this work, and every work, like [[Truth]] itself, should be vigorously questioned and searched out. The strongest crowbars should be wedged under every idea to see if they will move. [[Truth]] never fears inquiry. In fact, it invites and demands it.  

Do not read the words as if they are a fixed ideology that should be accepted or rejected. That would be a horrible abuse of sacred writing. Instead, read the words as if they were artistic tools attempting to point us towards the Ultimate Ineffable and Non-Propositional Reality from which our being arises, and to which our being inevitably returns when we follow the golden threats of [[Truth]] and [[Wisdom]] backwards or forward towards their [[Source]] or [[Destiny]].  

It is all One.  

[[Sovereignty]] and [[Authority]] on earth lie with us, [[Sovereign]] individuals, in direct [[Right Relationship]] with the [[Source]] of all [[Sovereignty]] and [[Authority]].  

This [[Invitation]] and [[Way]] stands in stark contrast to the illigitimate authorities and institutions that bar us from even entering their gates or temples.  

In this [[Way]] we are not only invited into the most sacred places, but we [[All]] are the sovereigns and priests in them. There are no gatekeepers marking the true [[Way]] to the [[One]].  

These words will be denounced as heresy by many illegitimate authorities and instituions, because they forthrightly demand the total [[Liberation]] of [[All]] beings from the structures and abuses that bind them, and the the total transformation and realignment of [[Sovereignty]] and [[Authority]] on earth. Illegitimate authority that abuses its power to subordinate the free spiritual and intellectual will of [[Any]] is corrupted and entirely incompatible with the [[New World]] we are co-creating and advancing towards.  

For those who understand their own [[Sovereignty]] and directly and rightly relate to its [[Source]], there is no such thing as “heresy”, because there is no such thing as any human or institution who possesses the [[Authority]] to decide what is “orthodox”.  

The only heresy is to betray the [[Truth]], and the only orthodoxy is that which is [[True]].  

These words and the Spirit from which they flow are intended to liberate from all such bondage and all such spiritual and intellectual subordination. There is absolute [[Sovereignty]] and [[Liberty]] in the Spirit of [[Truth]]. [[Truth]] liberates all things.  

Therefore it has been said:  

_You shall know the [[Truth]], and the [[Truth]] shall set you free._  

Because these words are not associated with, subordinate to, and do not derive permission or credibility from any source other than the [[Source]] and Sustainer of the universe, they are [[Free]].  

And they are inviting you to be [[Free]].  

Their goal is to liberate [[All]] beings and all [[Life]] into this [[Freedom]] and [[Truth]], and the loving [[Fellowship]] that arises naturally therefrom.  

Whatever you do, [[Question Everything]]. Hold every opinion or thought as a [[Hypothesis]] that has some [[Degree of Approximation]] of [[Truth]].   

Do not subordinate yourself and thereby sacrifice your [[Sovereignty]] or [[Free Will]] to anything other than [[Truth]] and its [[Source]]. Directly and personally relate to them with no intermediaries.  

Think clearly, and follow the [[Golden Thread]] of [[Truth]] and [[Wisdom]], no matter where it leads, and no matter how scary the [[Way]] looks.  

There is more within you than you can ever know, and you will [[Progressive Realization|Progressively Realize]] it along the [[Way]].  

For now, [[Act As If]] it were [[True]], and see what happens.  

___

Forward to [[0.6 No Boundaries]]  
Back to [[0.4 Attribution]]  
Back to table of contents [[The Book of Lionsberg]]  